# Ersatzica Story Outline

I just found this video online: <https://youtu.be/fe3eodLF_Uo> It's really inspiring. So I'm going to use it outline Ersatzica's story. I was thinking about doing this for tePeshabi instead, but I don't really know what the inciting incident is of that story, and I'm still trying to figure out what that story is about. So I'm going to do it for a story I have developed a lot more. Anyway here is the outline, as shown in the video.

# Act 0

1.  Pantrinome invades wolf tribe, gets killed, loses 3 of 4 newborn kittens, Awoomoon also gives birth.

# Act 1

Ersatizca finds the boots, leaves to visit cat village

1.  Ersatzica, Mudrich, Wryonin, Lemilay all go to fend off cats invading on their shore, track them down and retrieve what they stole, among which is the Boots of Retriyoan. Ersatzica has to cross the river, almost drowns, and gets saved by the fisher cat.
2.  Ersatzica finds the boots in her workshop and starts working on them. She messes around with them and turns into a cat, allowing her to fit into the boots. Also Mudrich busts down the door to her shop by accident.
3.  Ersatzica freaks out, and stumbles around. Wryonin and Lemilay track her down, but Mudrich saves her right before Wryonin can shoot her. Awoomoon tells her not to test the boots again until she converts them to use for wolves.
4.  Wryonin forces Ersatzica to come to training with them. During the training, Ersatzica’s scar almost busts open. Ersatzica sees the fisher cat across the river. She dips out on training early and takes the boots across the river. She talks with the fisher cat. Mudrich finds her on the other side. Days go by and Ersatzica has frequent chats with the fisher cat. Fisher cat invites Ersatzica to his village, she considers the offer. Lemilay secretly finds out, warns her that there will be consequences if she continues talking to fisher cat.
5.  Ersatzica stays away for a few days, then goes back for a visit. The next day, while she’s “testing” the boots in the workshop, it catches on fire. She gets out ok, but most of her workshop stuff is destroyed.
6.  Ersatzica requests to be able to workshop next to the river “for quick access in between workouts”. Lemilay discovers a secret about Ersatzica’s birth during the workshop rebuilding. Wryonin is posted at Ersatzica’s new “workshop” to keep her safe, and to help assist her with the project, and to keep her in the faith. "What ever you do Ersatzica," her mother looked deep into her eyes. "Remember that the Wolf Goddess of the Moon loves you." (this kind of talk will definitely make the wolves seem religious).
7.  Ersatzica convinces Wryonin to let her talk to the fisher cat so she can “get info about the invasion”. Wryonin reluctantly agrees, but listens in on the conversations she has in secret. Wryonin finally gets impatient and tells her enough is enough, and notices that she hasn’t made any progress on making the boots fit wolves. He takes the boots from her until he can figure out how to use them to transform. (about Wryonin struggling between loyalty to his family and loyalty to his faith)
8.  Ersatzica discovers she can transform without the boots. Finds ways to ditch Wryonin and get across the river. She gets Mudrich to help cover for her. She finally accepts fisher cat’s invitation and he takes her to his village.

# Act 2

Ersatzica learns a lot from the cats, and starts spending more and more time over there, gets replaced by fake ersie

1.  Ersatzica goes to the cat village (not the cat city). She learns all about cats, and goes missing for several hours everyday.
2.  Ersatzica delves into knowledge, and spends more and more time in the boots as an excuse to live as a cat, she learns all about how to climb trees and sharpen her claws, how to bathe herself, and other things.
3.  She encourages Wryonin to try them, and convinces him that it will help her figure out how to modify the boots. However, the boots don't work for him, but he eventually expresses interest. But ends up telling Awoomoon everything, betraying his promise to Ersatzica.
4.  Wryonin, Mudrich, Lemilay are sent to ward off cats reportedly fishing at the river, ex the fisher cat. Ersatzica warns fisher cat and covers for them. Something bad happens here
5.  Awoomoon becomes impatient about Ersatzica's lack of progress. Next Lemilay catches Ersatzica genuinely enjoying the cats' company, and blackmails Ersatzica into promising to turn down the Chieftess position, if she gets it offered to her. Mudrich finds the fisher cats and scares them off. Wryonin lectures Ersatzica into focusing more on her assignment.
6.  Lemilay tells Ersatzica the secret about her birth in an attempt to blackmail her or manipulate her. Ersatzica realizes that she is actually a cat, and has been all along. Awoomoon tells her everything about her origin, but asserts that shes still a wolf at heart, and always will be. Ersatzica goes back to the cat village. A cat in the village wants to join the wolves, steals Ersatzica’s wolf skin, and pretends to be Ersatzica.
7.  Ersatzica finds her wolf skin missing and gets captured by Lemilay’s patrol. The Fake Ersatzica helps convince everyone that Ersatzica isn’t herself. Lemilay intentionally orders them to restrain her instead of killing her. They lock her up. Lemilay and Fake Ersie team up to help Lemilay make more progress towards becoming the next chief.
8.  Ersatzica runs back to Awoomoon, and tells her that she was right about the cats not accepting her, and that she should remain loyal to the wolves.
9.  Ersatzica modifies the boots for wolf anatomy. Faces a lot of stigma for her "curse", as Awoomoon called it.
10. Awoomoon sends a strike team out with the boots, and they capture their target, the fisher cats. Ersatzica is regarded as a hero for her engineering skills, despite her being a cat.

# Act 3

Ersatzica develops a plan to get her wolf skin back, gets captured, makes up with her siblings, stops the battle, goes with cats

1.  Ersatzica finds a new freedom, being allowed to work on tasks at will and roam around without any stigma. But she also finds that she prefers to be a cat, and enjoys her new set of learned cat behaviours.
2.  Ersatzica is arrested for being an imposter, as the "real" Ersatzica "comes back" and claims she was kidnapped. It's really another cat wearing the Wolfskin of Monassus, but Awoomoon and the wolf tribe fully believe it. Ersatzica is imprisoned, and her siblings treat her like scum.
3.  Ersatzica feels betrayed and stupid, blaming herself for running to the cats in the first place. She tries to howl, but finds it hard without her wolf vocal chords.
4.  Fisher cat takes a feather off his head to reveal that he's actually a wolf, and has been this whole time. He tells Ersatzica his story about he thought he was a cat since he was a kid, and how he's grateful for all the kindness Ersatzica showed them while they were imprisoned, doing things to make them more comfortable. He tells her how people can do things out of the kindness of their heart, and not just because they were told to do so by an authoritarian. Ersatzica realizes what she's been trying to do all along is make life better for her people, not hurt them. The fisher cat also tells her the origin of the feather (it has to do with monassus and quivester).
5.  Ersatzica flips the script and teaches the fisher cat how to howl, and that draws the attention of Mudrich. Ersatzica convinces her that she's real by reminding her how much she's done for her. Mudrich confesses that "new Ersie" hasn't done anything and has been a total jerk. Mudrich frees Ersatzica and the fisher cat.
6.  Mudrich informs them that the wolf counter invasion is about to begin. Awoomoon finds the prison empty and sends Wryonin, Lemilay, New Ersie to find them. Ersie uses her cat skills to sneak around the wolf village, while Mudrich and fisher cat run interference. Wryonin has the boots. Eventually, Wryonin catches Ersatzica, and Ersatzica makes up with Wryonin, and he confesses that he missed her. Then they confront Lemilay, who is backed up by New Ersie. New Ersie has been kissing up to Lemilay, so Lemilay is not so quick to side with Ersatzica. After an ensuing argument that shows that New Ersie is able to be more loyal to wolf ideals than Ersatzica, Lemilay betrays that she's known all along that New Ersie is an imposter, "She's even a better you than you ever were! She's loyal and supportive, and does whatever I tell her." Lemilay also spills the beans that she's planning on Awoomoon dying today, and that she'll be chieftess soon. They fight, and they manage to get the wolfskin from New Ersie. Or maybe instead Lemilay acts shocked to find out New Ersie isn't a wolf and turns on her. They get the wolfskin either way. Awoomoon calls them to the front lines.
7.  Ersatzica gets to work on a plan to stop the battle. She tweaks the boots to amplify sound instead of silencing it, and she modifies the drum to work on howls. She wears the wolf skin for the howling, which beats into the drum, which gets amplified by the boots. The battle ensues, Awoomoon is indirectly killing cats left and right, and lots of blood shed on both sides. Ersatzica gets there right as Mudrich is about to be slapped with a losing 1v1 duel. She plays the drum, gets everyone in sync, then stops playing. Everybody freezes in place, unable to move until the drum plays again. She tells everyone the truth, that Monassus and his cat friend were killed by accident, and that this whole conflict needs to stop.
8.  New Ersie sneaks up behind her and smashes the drum, allowing everyone to move again. The cats gain the advantage, and Ersie and her siblings are cornered. Ersatzica howls loudly, getting everybody's attention. Then she takes off the wolfskin and orders everybody to stop again. The cat captain agrees to a truce if Ersatzica comes back to the cat kingdom with him. Awoomoon warns Ersatzica that if she does, she can't ever come back. Ersatzica reluctantly agrees to go so that her wolf tribe survives.
9.  Ersatzica goes to the cat kingdom, and moves in with the fisher cat. She wasn't allowed to keep the wolfskin, the boots, or the drum. She's off to start a new adventure in the cat kingdom.
