Ersatzica version 3 (?) plot notes
Ok so this story has undergone so many versions, I forget what version we're on. I have some new ideas about how to solve some problems with the longest version so far.
So Jen heard / read (at least part) of the latest version, the one where she learns about being a cat from an old cat camped outside the river border who is also trying to assassinate the wolf leader, and she said that this version is too long and boring because it takes Ersatzica way too long to realize she's a cat, even after she has a cat form.
So that got me thinking that yeah, the boots turning her into a cat should be the inciting incident.
After watching a video about how Mulan (1998) introduces the main character in such a brilliant way at the start of the movie, I was thinking about how to do that with Ersatzica.
So the main trait I want to highlight is that Ersatzica is an engineer and she has a strong drive to building and inventing things. And then some secondary characteristics: shes not very cautious, and is only aware of danger after being alerted to it. This leads to her getting into hazardous situations where she has to get bailed out, usually by her siblings, especially Mudrich. Also Ersatzica likes to make inventions she thinks will help her family and people, but is not good at researching or finding out if her inventions are even useful / wanted in the first place. She likes to solve "problems" that no one wants / needs solved.
So the first chapter starts off 
Ok actually some of her character traits might not align nicely thematically with her being a cat disguised as a wolf. IDK yet, ill have to think of some kind of connection.
Anyway, in the first chapter she builds cat climbing handheld things that allow a wolf to climb vertical surfaces like a cat. They're basically ice picks shaped like cat claws. She tests them on a steep cliff face and gets half way up before Mudrich finds her and tells her she's up too high.
Ersatzica keeps going, then she loses her breath (due to her decreased endurance from her chest scar she's had since birth), then looks down and realizes she's up way too far. Somewhere along there her cat claws start coming apart and she reaches into her toolbelt for the tool to put it back together.
Mudrich saves Ersie or gets someone to save her.
Then Ersie's wolf mom (who is also wolf chief) notices that Ersie's latest projects have all been about cats: cat paw print boots to mask wolf tracks, modifications to cat spears, and now cat claw climbing gear. So she hands Ersie a special mission: study and reverse engineer a golden pair of boots: Retriyoan's boots.
Ersie happily takes on the task, thinking that this will finally show her mom that she can be an engineer and that she doesn't have to do any of the other jobs. Whats her main personal problem? IDK, still working on that. Maybe she's motivated by keeping her family alive, and that means taking out the enemy (the cats) and that means giving her side any advantage she can. But that all turns upside down when she realizes that she is a cat, and that her true family isn't what she thought it would be.
Anyway, she tries to test out the boots, but she can't fit into them because they're made for cat anatomy. So she vainly wishes to have cat anatomy, and the wolf skin that disguises her as a wolf peels back, and shes a cat, and can fit into the boots. 
So I think she'd think that the boots turned her into a cat, and doesn't realize that it's the skin that made her a wolf.
This still doesn't seem like a good inciting incident tho. Maybe the wolf skin floats away or she loses it or something. I think that works better. Now she's stuck as a cat and has to find her wolf skin in addition to having to reverse engineer the boots.
So she probably gets chased across the river and loses her tool belt too. Then she meets another cat, who teaches her how to be a feline.
She's now more connected to her feline side, but still thinks that she's a wolf and that cats are her enemy.
Then she hatches a plan to get her wolfskin back. She uses some engineering wizardry she put together ahead of time to get it back in a genius way. Then she finds out that her wolf brother Wryonin is the one guarding the wolf skin. So she wears a cloak and asks her brother about giving her the wolf skin. He says no and asks why she is wearing a cloak. 
And then they go into the woods, and she reveals that she's a cat at the moment. Wryonin, despite never having faith in her inventions or her motivations, embraces her, whereas Ersie's sisters rejected her earlier when they found out (even Lemilay, who saw Ersie transform through her past vision).
"Wryonin?"
"Oh, Ersie," Wryonin hugged his sister tightly. "I've missed hearing your voice so much. I didn't want to believe Lemilay and Mudrich when they told me you'd be kidnapped by the cats."
Oh, years earlier, earlier, after Ersie had made a new set of tools, she saw Wryonin practicing throwing his boomerang, and it fell into the river and was washed away. Ersie made him a net to catch the next boomerang when it fell. Wryonin dismissed it and said it was stupid. But the next time a newly carved boomerang fell into the river, the first thing he did was grab the net and use it to fall into the river. After Ersie became a cat, Wryonin thought of her the next time he used it, and realized that her inventions weren't all terribly useless. Wryonin goes from "What, am I supposed to carry this net around with me during battle?" to "This was a really thoughtful gift." To actually carrying it around in battle as a makeshift disarming weapon.
Anyway, so Wryonin agrees to get Ersie the wolf skin. But when they get back, they find that it's been stolen. Wryonin assures Ersie everything will be fine when they go to tell their mother what happened. Ersie wears the cloak through town to get to the chief's quarters. But right before they get there, 
I forgot to mention that Ersie has to be able to talk to Wryonin, so at some point she takes off the boots to talk to him (bc the boots make her 100% silent). The boots also get stolen / are left somewhere out of reach, so Ersie leaves behind cat paw prints all over town, and Mudrich tries to track them down (Mudrich's specialty is dirt related, including tracking animals through paw prints). So Ersie hides out and quickly carves out wolf tread sandals while Wryonin keeps Mudrich busy. Or Wryonin carries Ersie on his back, as he did in the past to help Ersie get places when she's out of breath. Anyway, they get to the chief's hut, only to find wolf Ersie already walking into it. *gasp* the wolf skin was missing because someone stole it and put it on!
So Wryonin goes in to talk to their wolf mother and fake Ersie, trying to figure out who it is while at the same time trying to convince wolf mother that Ersie is walking around as a cat. At the same time, fake Ersie is trying to convince wolf mother that cat Ersie is a spy and trying to assassinate wolf mother.
Meanwhile, Mudrich has enlisted Lemilay to help track down the "cat spy" (cat Ersie). Ersie has to give them the run around. She climbs a tree to get away from them, using her genuine cat claws.
Wryonin tries to tell wolf mother that fake Ersie is a fake, but he can't prove it. Then he remembers that Ersie cant run long distances. So he fakes seeing an army invade, and tells them they have to rush now to the end of the cliff to get there fast, leaning into fake Ersie's story.
The three run to the edge of the cliff, and fake Ersie doesn't break a sweat. Wryonin points this out. Wolf mother tells fake Ersie to show her the scar, but because the scar is invisible under the fur, and so fake Ersie cant show it (whereas real Ersie proudly shows off the scar)
(also I should note somewhere that Wryonin "never forgets a scar" and knows certain enemy warriors from the scars they have)(I guess some scars are visible and others aren't?)
Fake Ersie cant show it, so wolf mother puts her under arrest. Fake Ersie is put in prison, but wont give up the wolf skin (she has to intentionally take it off).
Then Ersie finds Wryonin and they go to wolf mother, and cat Ersie cloaks herself, leading up to the reveal that she's in a cat's body and just trying to get her skin back.
"Ersie, my sweet little kitten." Wolf mother hugs her, tears streaming down her face.
"Kitten?" Ersie's ears prick up under her hood.
"You think you're a wolf trapped in a cat's body. But you've always been a cat. Trapped in a wolf's body."
"What?" Ersie tore away from the hug, allowing the cloak to fall off her. Her majestic feline beauty shimmered in the sunlight, twinkling in her mother's eyes. "I'm... a wolf!"
"Oh, beautiful your coat is!" wolf mother buried her face in cat Ersie's chest. "I had forgotten how beautiful it is."
"But mother," Ersie protested. "I'm a wolf. Not a cat."
"I'm sorry, dear, but I had to protect you. No one here would accept me adopting a child of the enemy. I had to disguise you as a wolf to protect you."
"No, no, no, this can't be happening." Ersie backed away. "The boots! It was the boots! The boots turned me into a cat, and now I just need to get my skin back to become the wolf I know I am."
"Ersie." Wolf mother protested.
Ersie grabbed the cloak and ran to the next room, where Wryonin was. "I need to get the boots."
The boots had been captured by Lemilay and Mudrich, who were trying to study it trying to figure out how its wearer had escaped. Or something. IDK, somehow they got it, and Ersie and Wryonin have to confront them to get the boots.
Wryonin tells them that Ersie is hear, but they cant see her face, because its covered in poison ivy or something. He's bad at lying. Ersie decides to tell them the truth, but phrases it as her being imprisoned in a cat's body.
Lemilay admits that she knew she had turned into a cat, but lied to Mudrich and kept it a secret because she didn't want to be associated with the wolf-turned-cat because it might effect her chances of being future chief. Lemilay apologizes for how she treated Ersatzica, and Mudrich cries and hugs Ersie for blindly believing a lie (Mudrich is rather gullible). During the hug, Mudrich knocks off the cloak, revealing cat Ersie. Mudrich and Lemilay gasp, but then quickly regain their composure.
They all do a group hug and plan how to get the wolf skin back. Wryonin interrogates fake Ersie, and Mudrich and Lemilay try to do something else, IDK yet. Then Ersie walks in with the boots, takes them off, and leaves, while talking with fake Ersie to distract her. It's made clear to fake Ersie that "wolves have good hearing" so she cant leave without making sounds that will alert the guards. So they intentionally leave the only option open to take the boots.
Fake Ersie cant take the boots without giving up the wolf skin. So she leaves behind the wolf skin in order to escape in the 100% soundproof boots. She gets away successfully. 
Ersie puts on the wolf skin to become wolf Ersie again. But instantly she feels like somethigns wrong, like she's just wearing a skin-tight piece of clothing. Her siblings all celebrate a little seeing their sibling restored to her "true" self. She grimaces in forced agreement, trying to convince herself that everything is fine.
She sees her boyfriend again, and tells him a fib of getting lost in the woods. This time, instead of asking him to carve something for her, she asks him to teach her how to carve (she internalized her ability to carve with her cat claws).
She looks at the shit yard (the yard where they all poop) and instinctively tries to bury her poop. The other wolves there watch her, bewildered. She builds herself a hammock in a tree (before she slept in a hammock at ground level in a cave). 
She still denies it to everyone, even her wolf mother, who lovingly watches on as her adopted daughter denies her true self.
Anyway, it comes to the attention of the wolf mother that vital information was leaked / stolen by the fake Ersie. They speculate that the cat offensive will come sooner or later, but not how or when. Ersie and her siblings take it upon themselves to gather intel. They help Ersie get across the river, where she takes off her wolf skin to infiltrate a cat camp. She finds the intel, but the fake Ersie recognizes her and has her declared unfit for duty and escorted back to the cat homeland.
Or something, IDK. I thought the fake Ersie was the same cat who taught Ersie how to be a cat, and would most likely be a loner.
Anyway, Ersie's siblings band together to rescue Ersie, using mostly inventions that Ersie had built for them. They then give Ersie back her wolfskin, not even realizing that she did it without the boots, which they thought caused it in the first place. They get the intel back to wolf mother, and now the wolves prepare for war.
Ersie makes whole new inventions that are designed specifically to target the cat's weaknesses, so the wolves will have the ultimate advantage.
Then they have the final battle, not during the night, so that wolf mother's necklace doesn't activate (the one that wolf dad's soul guards and protects wolf mother through, using "final destination"-style moves). A battle ensues, and the wolves indeed do have advantages that Ersie gave her through her knowledge of cats, but the other cat who was fake Ersie for a time got some good understanding of wolves too (actually the cats already knew about wolves because they had the wolf skin for a good amount of time, but what they didn't know was the defensive setup of the wolves, and how best to get the wolves to not fight on their own defensive grounds). Anyway, the cats outsmart the wolves, and push them back. 
They get pushed back to the cliff edge that leads up to their town, but the wolves cant climb it, and Ersie didn't build them cat claws, so they get cornered. Ersie decides to take off the wolf skin and show herself to the cats to get them to stop. Wolf mother keeps the wolves from attacking cat Ersie. And the cat commander in the enemy stops the cat army.
When the commander sees cat Ersie, he immediately recognizes her fur pattern: that of her cat mother's, Pantrinome. He calls her by a name she didn't recognize. He double checks and confirms that she is indeed the daughter of who he thinks she is, and then hugs her. He calls off the assault. He asks if she was kidnapped by the wolves, and she says no, she was raised by them.
"Were you kidnapped by these wolves?"
"No, I was raised by these wolves." Ersie gets defensive. "They're my family. I can't let you hurt them."
They come to a truce, but cat commander says he'll only agree to it if Ersie comes home to Cat Kingdom to get a proper education. 
"She's a wolf, not a cat." Wryonin protests. "Ersie, don't go with them."
Ersie looks at her wolf mom.
"Be your true self." Her wolf mom whispers.
"Yeah! Your true self! Don't go with them!" Her sisters shout.
Ersie looks around at all the expectant faces. The cats expect her to come with them, and the wolves expect her to stay with them.
Ersie decides. "If it means you will leave my family alone, I will go with you."
"Then I'm coming too." Ersie's boyfriend states. Or IDK, some reason it makes sense for him to go too.
Cat Commander and Wolf Mother agree to a truce, and an exchange of citizens. Fake Ersie and another cat get sent to the wolf town in exchange.
Yosummit and Ersie sit in a cart on the way to the Cat Kingdom. They talk to each other as they ride.
"So, I'm still confused." Yosummit (Ersie's bf) asks Ersie. "Are you a wolf or a cat?"
"Honestly?" Ersie leans on Yosummit's shoulder. "Maybe both? But I'm leaning cat." She purrs as she falls asleep.


So yeah, I think this version works much better than the previous versions I've had.
Some things I forgot to mention, like scenes and stuff. There's the Wryonin boomerang scene where Ersie makes him a net, but there's also the thing where they all four are tasked with building traps as a training exercise, and they go about it different ways. Mudrich just brute forces it and tries to make as many as possible (honestly hers are the best bc she's familiar with dirt, and she's gots lots of energy). Wryonin carefully constructs one trap to perfect specs, but he fails because he didn't test it and ended up building it wrong in ways the specs didn't specify. Lemilay got a friend to build hers for her in secret. And Ersatzica watched Mudrich and build a machine that builds traps for her, so she doesn't have to do it herself. Or builds a tool or something. But anyway, she spends so much time building the tool that she runs out of time to build the actual trap. So they all fail in unique ways.
Then somewhere it needs to be established that Lemilay is seen as the next in line for the throne, but its not passed on by bloodlines, it has to be earned. So she's trying super hard to earn it, but also she removes potential competitors by having them be embarrassed by someway or another (that's why she couldn't acknowledge at first that Ersie had become a cat). Then Mudrich talks to her about how she's scared for Ersie, about how she probably doesn't even know the danger she's in, and how scared she'd be when she realizes, and all that. Lemilay considers it and then feels bad for lying, but can't bring herself to tell the truth (at least not until she can't hide it any longer). Maybe Lemilay gives a speech at the final battle that tells Ersie in a roundabout way that "yes I knew, and you are a brave wolf, even if youre a cat, and youll always be a part of our family, no matter what you choose" and she redeems herself for her initial lie. And also gives Ersie the confidence she needs to choose cat. 
Maybe the other siblings don't initially like the idea of Ersie handing herself over, but then Lemilay's speech turns it around and makes them feel ok with it. Showing that Lemilay can be a good leader.
Wryonin just wants to protect the status quo, but most of all his family. When Ersie first "goes missing", he hunts for her, but Ersie avoids him. He's distraught that he failed to protect his sibling. So although he also wants to protect the status quo of "no cats in town, no cats in family", when he realizes Ersie is a cat, his will to protect her takes precedence over his will to keep cats out. His will to protect the status quo also explains why he dismisses Ersie's inventions. They threaten to disrupt the status quo. Ersie wants to give wolves climbing gear, but the status quo says wolves don't climb, ergo the climbing gear is evil.
And Mudrich is just a lovable ball of energy. She loves hunting and playing in the dirt. She also loves challenges, and is super competitive. But she's also super gullible, and doesn't think too hard about facts and logic. She thinks it's a waste of time building things when you could just train yourself to get better results. Wolf mother put her in charge of keeping Ersie safe (something Wryonin is bitter and jealous about), much to Mudrich's dismay. She likes spending time with Ersie, but dislikes having to drag her out of all her situations. But by the end she realizes that she's been training this whole time because doesn't want anything bad to happen to Ersie. And that Ersie and her situations give her an outlet for her training, a chance to prove herself. IDK, maybe this "message" is a bit weird, and needs reworked. The point is, right or wrong, that Mudrich's outlook on her sister changes over the course of the book.
Anyway yeah, I think this story makes a lot more sense, and most of the characters (Ersie and her siblings) have some kind of character development.

