Ersatzica Story Structure

So I know I've already written like 20,000 words or something for the new version of Ersatzica, but I'm scrapping the whole thing again, except for perhaps the prologue. I think that's still good. Basically I'm restructuring the entire story, and putting in new plot points.
So what is the climatic moment that the whole story builds up to? I still think the first book should lead to a climatic battle that Ersatzica stops by utilizing her family heirlooms: Retriyoan's boots, and Pantrinome's drums. Maybe even the Wolfskin of Monassus, but I'm not sure.
Maybe the first book is her accepting the fact that she's a cat.
The second book is her accepting herself as a cat.
And the third book is... idk. Maybe the final battle shouldn't happen until the third book, idk. I was going to escalate things so much that cats and wolves would have to come together to solve the crisis.
Book 1: Heirlooms are used by anthro animals
Book 2: Heirlooms are exploited and experimented on
Book 3: Anthro-ness is taken away from animals
Ok so at some point in Book 1, Ersatzica goes across the river, meets a cat / cats, and gets captured and/or stays with them for a while willingly and explores her cat self. I imagine being stuck over there would be a result of a character flaw that she has.
Ok idk
Everyone gathers in the wolf town to lynch a cat intruder. The cat says "we're not so different" and then looks at Ersatzica. They kill him, and as they drag his body away, he drops a silver spoon. Ersatzica looks at it, and it glows. She hides it and keeps it in her collection.
Ersatzica worked at her workstation ("the junkyard"), which was right next to a drying up river. One day, she drops a piece and it rolls into the river, getting carried away. Ersatzica jumps in after it. Mudrich leaps off the hammock to go after her. Ersatzica almost drowns / falls over the water fall trying to catch the piece. Mudrich rescues her, and admonishes her for being reckless. Ersatzica got the piece. Normal stuff happens, we meet her siblings, Mother, and Yosummit.
Chapter 2. Ersatzica loses another piece, but this time it leads her to the base of the tree that's next to her work table. The base of the tree has been recently revealed by the shallowing river. She spies a skull and consults Mudrich and Lemilay. Lemilay supervisors Mudrich as she digs out the skeleton. It's Pantrinome, btw, and she has 3 kitten skeletons, a puppy skeleton, and a drum and two boots. While studying the boots, Ersatzica realizes that they are feline, and that silently wishes to be able to fit into them. Her leg turns into a cat leg, and she wears them.
She gets shot in the leg by a cat, who appears to be a ghost as told in an old tale. The ghost took the boots and the drum. Mudrich tries to stop Ersatzica from chasing her, but she does anyway. The ghost cat hits Ersatzica in the shin, wounding her and preventing her from chasing after her. Ersatzica wishes she was as fast as a cat, and the wolfskin comes all the way off, and it protects her from the rain.
She wakes up the next day, turns back into a wolf and tracks down the ghost cat, and tries to walk off in the boots, but gets caught. She gets nursed up by the ghost cat, who isn't actually a ghost at all. But now the wolfskin is in the woods somewhere and she can't find it.
Now she always was able to turn into a cat or wolf as long as she can remember, but she never told anyone about it. Now she has to decide whether to let them worry or show them that she is a cat.
At first she decides that wolf or cat, she's family and she should let them see her for who she is. But then she overhears them talking about the cat that "kidnapped Ersatzica" and then she realized they might not be receptive to her in cat form. She decides she must get help to find the wolfskin as soon as possible.
The ghost cat was easy to find with the magic cat finder spoon. At first she demands, and the cat says no. The cat sneaks off into the forest by using the boots. Ersatzica loses him but eventually finds him again by using the spoon. He goes to a cabin in the woods. The door locks when he shuts it. From inside he shouts "ha! You'll never figure out how to get in!"
Ersatzica analyzes the lock and opens it easily. The ghost cat is surprised. Ersatzica begs him to help her find her wolfskin. Since he realizes he can't escape her, he obliges, just to get her to leave. He easily tracks down where she left the wolfskin, but when they get there, it's not there. Ghost cat gets hit in the belly with a stone, and it turns out it's Wryonin. He threatens them and demands that they take him to Ersatzica. Ersie tries to tell him it's her, even going so far as to call him by name. Wryonin doesn't believe it. Ghost cat runs off. Ersatzica follows close behind as much as she can. Wryonin finds the cat finder spoon on the ground where Ersatzica dropped it when she took off.
"Ersatzica" (which is really the actual ghost cat wearing the wolfskin) comes out of the bushes, and Wryonin hugs her. Ersatzica sees the embrace, and pops out of the bushes, protesting that it's not her. Wryonin threatens her and the ghost cat screams intentionally. Not ghost cat pulls Ersatzica back into the bushes.
Wryonin takes ghost cat back to the wolf town, and ghost cat wreaks havoc on the wolf town. Ersatzica decides that she can't let ghost cat harm her family. Ersatzica and not ghost cat sneak into Ersatzica's workshop. Mudrich was not there. Ersatzica prepares some things and gets ready to go into town - as a cat. Mudrich rolled over in the hammock. Ersatzica snuck up on her and whispered to her, and apologized for leaving her behind when she ventured into the woods. Mudrich hmphed and said "you better have a good explanation!" Ersatzica tried to let her down gently. "I... look different." Mudrich said she always looked different. Then she saw Ersatzica and almost lost it. Anyway, they resolved their differences, and Mudrich joined them on the quest to stop ghost cat. 
Then they came across Lemilay, who immediately noticed Mudrich was hiding something, used her history powers, and learned that there were cats nearby. Ersatzica approached Lemilay. Lemilay at first denied it, but she angry when she finally accepted it. When she heard about the situation, she decided to not intervene, but also to not help.
They got to the cliff steps. Wryonin was still helping ghost cat up. He noticed Ersatzica and not ghost cat, and decided to fight Ersatzica then and there. Ersatzica tried climbing the cliffside, but she was unskilled. Not ghost cat decided he would go up and stop ghost cat.
Ersatzica tried to resolve her differences with Wryonin. Wryonin would not believe that it was his sister. Finally, Lemilay and Mudrich stepped in to stop him from killing Ersatzica. He broke down into tears. Then they all realized that Mother must have known about it all along, and go to confront her.
Ghost cat beats not ghost cat and ties him up, presenting him as a captured intruder. Mother hugs ghost cat (still disguised as "Ersatzica"). She has not ghost cat tied up for questioning.
Ersatzica and her siblings show up and ask Mother why she didn't tell them about Ersatzica really being a cat. Mother tells them about how she ended up with Ersatzica. "I was maybe planning on raising you to be a spy."
"You planned this whole thing didn't you?" Ersatzica accused. "My mother's death and everything."
"No, that was just pure dumb luck on my part," Awoomoon said. "And pure dumb thinking on your mother's."
Oh but that's not before the epic chase sequence where Awoomoon tries to deny that Ersatzica is who she really is, and Awoomoon does this because she doesn't want anyone to know she's been raising a cat this whole time.
Then ghost cat makes the fatal mistake of trying to shank Awoomoon, and gets pierced through the chest final destination style. With ghost cat dead, the wolfskin comes off. Ghost cat had to take off the ghost hat (from Quivester) in order to put on the wolfskin. So Ersatzica took the wolfskin and put it on. But it felt wrong. She took it off and it flopped to the floor. 
Ersatzica felt like she no longer belonged. So she left for the Cat Kingdom.

Ok, maybe not a bad start. Definitely had more plot than the first version I did. But it's all over the place. And a lot of it doesn't make sense. Will have to rework.
